in this video you're gonna see an
example of a market sizing case
interview so you're going to see me
Julio an ex-bane consultant interview
Bruno and ex McKenzie consultant using a
market sizing case now these cases are
quite common in management consulting
interviews so Bain McKinnon say BCG but
also in finance product management and
even strategy interviews so it's a good
idea to master them before you go into
your interviews so you don't get
surprised by a tricky question so I
wanted to make this video in a way that
you could understand what a market
sizing is but also learn from this
example so what I did is I'll first
interview Bruno so that's what you're
going to watch in the first 20 or 30
minutes of the video but then I'm gonna
make a breakdown I'm going to take the
highlights from Bruno's performance and
I'm going to show you and explain what's
going on and what you can learn from his
performance that you can do in your own
interviews now if you want to learn even
more about market sizings and learn a
step-by-step process to solve any Market
sizing case and also get some high
quality practice with good examples with
detailed answers and lessons in the end
you can go to our free course on
estimations and Market science and
craftingcases.com free course that's
craftingcases.com free course now let's
get right to the interview so Bruno
here's what I want from you today okay I
want you to estimate the number of
neurosurgeons that are in the world
today you think you can do that yeah
neurosurgeons
that work actively active neurosurgeons
okay in the world so whole world
and yeah and if we're the only species
in the universe
with a brain probably neurosurgeons in
the universe right probably okay so
um
all right so number of neurosurgeons in
the world
okay I have a couple approaches here
okay number one is to estimate the
number of neurosurgeries so uh find the
number of neurosurgeries per year in the
world so total demand yeah and divide
that by the surgeries per surgeon on
average okay
now my second approach would be to
estimate the number of doctors
so active medical doctors and multiply
that by the percentage of those who are
neurosurgeons
okay okay
um
yeah and between these two I think I'd
go with the first one because it
captures demand as well as their
productivity in a way yeah uh while the
second approach it's kind of hard to
guess what is the number of neuros the
percentage of doctors that are
neurosurgeons yeah I mean I could do
like percentage that are surgeons and
then percentage that are neurosurgeons
but that would be a little bit hard to
guess right the only thing that uh that
would be biased on number one that I can
think of is
it's not a
it's not a perfect market right so uh so
maybe there's demand for more
neurosurgeries uh
uh but you can train them fast enough
yeah
so it's not a perfect Market because
there's a huge barrier to entry uh which
is like studying a lot of years and
getting certified and stuff so that's
the only it assumes a perfect Market but
I can try to adjust that in the model so
I'd go with that one if you're fine with
it okay yeah that's my favorite as well
okay sure so let me can I have a couple
minutes to structure how to estimate
this okay
so
number of neurosurgeons
as I said on the first layer
I'm speaking as I as I think here go on
so as I said as a first layer you need
to know the number of
neurosurgeries
per year
in the world okay
yeah and then I need to divide that by
the number of
surgeries
an average neurosurgeon
can do per year
okay so to find the number of
neurosurgeries per year
I need to find how many people so number
of
people
who need who do
a neurosurgery per year
and then multiply that by the average
number of
surgeries
per person who needs neurosurgery all
right because some people will need them
more than once yeah maybe there's
something wrong goes in their surgery or
maybe you have a first surgery for
exploration and finding whatever is
wrong with your brain and then a second
surgery to to actually do the
procedure yeah uh
okay so it should be close to one this
average but because most people do one
yeah but but it should be a little over
right okay so number of people who do
neurosurgery per year that's it's a
little tough to estimate so I'm gonna
break this down because I think it's
easier to think of a lifetime
so number of people
who need
or who do
a neurosurgery in their lifetime right
okay I think it's a little easier to to
estimate and I can divide that by the
average
lifespan
of a person so obviously this assumes
that a person will
this assumes that you're as likely to do
a neurosurgery when you're 10 years old
as you are when you're 50 or 70 yeah
which is probably not true but it should
be close enough because otherwise it'd
have to draw the curve of like how many
people are in each age bracket and yeah
that makes sense that'd be cumbersome
okay and then the number of people who
do neurosurgery in their lifetime would
be the world population
times the percentage
who need or who do
a surgery
all right okay
right and then average number of
surgeries per person who does
a
actually let's let's change this up a
little bit I'm gonna do number of people
who need instead of who do okay surgery
per year
uh and then I'm gonna change it all
number of people who need neurosurgery
in their lifetime which is population
times the percentage who needs
neurosurgery
right and then I'm gonna make the
difference between those who need
surgery and those who do surgery in the
second bucket which is the average
number of surgeries per person who need
okay surgery okay just sounds good just
to break to space out the variables a
little bit more yeah I understand so
average number of surgeries per person
who needs surgery okay that's gonna be
three factors
right Factor number one would be
the percentage
so if a person needs surgery what would
make them not do a surgery maybe they
don't have access to it okay so
percentage who have access
okay
then you have a second factor which is
the percentage of those who have access
so I need a surgery do I have access yes
do I want to do the surgery
because some people might not want to do
it maybe there's a low risk of
I don't know something going wrong or
maybe they have religious beliefs or
maybe they
maybe they they just prefer to you know
live their
uh last days here on Earth yeah not
doing not being in the hospital or
something so percentage hopped in
and then the third variable is the uh
surgeries
per person
who does
a surgery right okay yeah so do you want
to see it or does it make sense yeah I
get it I can see it from here first okay
sure so and then I need to break down
the number of surgeries the average
neurosurgeon does per year
all right
this is a tricky one let's see so let me
think of the best way to structure this
go on you have time okay okay so my
first layer here would be
the number of surgeries
because what is tricky here is
that we need the average right yeah so
it's not actually what the neurosurgeons
do but you also have to take into
consideration that many of these
neurosurgers have more than a surgeon
just like a plane has a pilot and a
co-pilot right good point on average uh
you have two two uh Pilots per plane per
flight or half a flight per pilot on
average
okay okay so you need double capacity
that's what I mean yeah and the same
like if you have the demand for
surgeries and let's say you need two
surgeons per surgery you need double
capacity which means you need twice the
number of professionals okay all other
things being equal okay so I'm gonna do
a number of surgeries the average
neurosurgeon participates yeah
okay per year and then divide that by
the average
number of neurosurgeons per
surgery
okay yeah for the number of surgeries
the average neurosurgeon participate per
year this one is easier it's the number
of hours worked
on surgery
on surgeries yeah
per year divided by the average
time
per surgery
and these surgeries are quite long so
uh so yeah yeah I can imagine they can
zoom in a week right and then number of
hours worked on surgeries per year
because they don't spend all their time
in the or right so yeah uh so we need to
see how many uh number of hours the
average surgeon
works
per week per year sorry uh total total
hours yeah and then multiply that by
percentage of time spent
on
surgery
right okay so I'm quite happy with this
structure do you have any feedback here
it's quite a big one so I just want to
make sure
no this makes sense I'm on board with
this okay I am really curious in how
you're gonna get to these numbers yeah
let's see
but I do want to say well most of them
are easy but some of them are kind of
hard right yeah so let's start with I'll
do all the assumptions at once and then
I'll do the math later okay sounds good
so population of the world
um let's call it 7 billion
okay I know it's somewhere between seven
and eight billion but let's do seven and
then the percentage of people who need a
surgery in their lifetime that's quite a
hard one yeah uh
because yeah most people I know haven't
had surgeries but I think it's more than
we expect because there's all sorts of
surgeries right it's not just brain
cancer yeah you have uh people who have
had trauma right and you have uh older
people with neurovascular issues
and there's also exploratory surgeries
so I don't know let's say you go blind
or something yeah and they suspect of a
neurological thing maybe you can do some
exams but maybe you need to
to to open your school and and check it
so
I'd say
I'd say five percent so one in 20 people
I can be on board with five percent okay
average human lifespan let's do 70 years
okay to make the numbers work well uh
and also considering it's the whole
world right it's not just developed
countries yeah now we need to see the
assumptions for the average number of
surgeries per person who needs a surgery
so these are people who need surgery
yeah a lot of these people won't do
surgery right so people percentage who
have access to neurosurgery in case they
need it
so a few factors that I think here is
well of course very poor countries also
poor people in rich countries wouldn't
have access yeah and yeah maybe people
no people in isolated areas
if it's an urgent surgery if and you
live in an isolated area maybe you don't
have access to it yeah so let's do 50
again not 100 sure of this but seems
close enough okay uh then the percentage
will opt-in for surgery I think most
people would yeah but I don't think it's
the vast majority because
yeah this brain uh issues that need
surgery are sometimes quite extreme
maybe yeah maybe your your doctor says
you have two months to leave to live and
then chances of surgery saving you are
are
actually maybe our doctor says you know
maybe nothing is going to go wrong and
if you do the surgery your chance to
live is small and then you're like okay
I'm not gonna do that right yeah uh
you'd be surprised because brain surgery
can be risky not only in terms of death
but also in terms of
unexpected consequences right and
the outcome may not be so good if you
have a specific tumor it may not be
the best quality of life afterwards yeah
and sometimes there's alternative
treatments perhaps so chemotherapy I
don't know I'm not a neurosurgeon but
yeah let's call it 80 okay okay and then
the surgeries per person who chooses to
do a surgery uh I'm gonna go with
as I said it's higher than one probably
not much higher 1.1 1.2 would be okay
I'd say 1.1 which implies that 10 of
people who do a surgery need to do
another one all right sounds right to me
uh and then let's go into the uh Supply
uh variables so number of hours the
average surgeon Works per year
let's do 50 weeks
per year okay and then let's say 60
hours per week
maybe more because they work a lot yeah
but also through their whole career they
probably can't sustain 80 90 hour work
weeks right so yeah let's do 60 hours
perk does that sound okay yeah that
sounds right okay and then the average
time spent on surgery percentage of
these 60 hours per week that they spend
on
surgery
I'd say most of the time they're not
doing surgery one because it's very
tiring yeah
and second because they have other
activities they have to do clinical work
right so uh
talk to their patients yeah they have
after before the surgery right they have
to strategize what they're going to do
in the surgery plan the surgery with
other doctors both other neurosurgeons
and also other doctors that may be
involved in the treatment yeah like a
cancer doctor for instance they also
need to do after surgery care yeah in
the hospital they have to do uh probably
a lot of uh paperwork yeah uh and for
insurance and stuff right and they have
to train new neurosurgeons many
neurosurgeons teach at universities uh
or they do uh training in hospitals and
stuff so let's say 20 percent
okay of of those 60 hour work weeks
which would be
about 12 hours per week in the or maybe
it's 30 percent but yeah somewhere
between 20 and 30 yeah what do you think
that sounds about right that would mean
uh a bit more than one work day in the
or yeah every week yeah that sounds
about right yeah I'd have trouble
focusing on that level of focus that
they need for 12 hours a week but well
maybe they're Pro they're probably
better than me at that there's a reason
why you're not a neurosurgeon
then the average interesting per surgery
I know many neurosurgerys take like 10
12 14 hours yeah uh but I also know that
there are smaller procedures uh so
things related to the spine where you
don't have to go deep into the brain and
uh maybe just releasing pressure from
the score I don't know if that's called
the neurosurgery or not and then those
would be like two three hours maybe
they're more numerous than the long ones
so I'd say six hours per surgery
would be an okay average okay okay and
then the average number of neurosurgeons
per surgery my guess here would be two
uh because maybe there's three in some
surgeries but maybe for the simple
procedures it's one yeah I bet most of
them need at least two
and I think outside very developed
markets uh very wealthy countries or
cities that people would do just use the
minimum because yeah you know in a small
City you can't really afford to have two
neurosurgeons for every procedure right
yeah or maybe you need two for
regulation reasons or for medical safety
reasons yeah but it wouldn't have a
third one yeah so I I would guess too
here on average so it's good I can go
with two okay so let's do
some math since the assumptions are
validated right so number of people who
need neurosurgery in their lifetime it's
7 billion people times five percent yeah
if it were 10 it would be 700 million
people so that's 350 million it's half
of that yeah okay uh and then to find
the number per year that need
neurosurgeon surgery per year on average
I divide 350 Million by 70 years okay
okay if this number were 700 million uh
we'd have 700 divided by 70 that would
be a hundred divided by 10 so 10 million
yeah but this number is 350 is half of
700 so it's 5 million people needing
neurosurgery per year okay okay uh on
the bottom side here average number of
surgeries per person who need surgery
so we have 50 percent of people uh have
access yeah and then eighty percent opt
in so 50 of 80 percent is forty percent
so forty percent will do at least one
surgery yeah and they will do that uh
the average person will do 1.1 surgery
okay so it's 40 percent plus ten percent
which is 0.44
uh surgeries
per person okay okay
uh so and then we need to multiply five
million people
who need neurosurgery per year uh by
0.44 surgeries per person okay let me
break down this math here okay uh If
This Were
0.1
it would be
uh 500k people 500 000 people right if
it were 0.11
it would be 550
000 people right yeah uh so because it's
0.44 it's 4 times 0.11 so it's four
times five hundred and fifty thousand
people which is 2.2
million
neurosurgery per year in the world yeah
okay just checking the math here we had
five million people needing neurosurgery
and 0.44 surgeries per person so just
below half of 5 million people 2.2
million is just below half of 5 million
so all right the math is right so we we
have 2.2 million
neurosurgeries per year in the world now
all we need to do is to find the number
of surgeries the average neurosurgeon
does per year uh
adjusting for the number of Surgeons per
surgery as I said yeah and we'll find
the number of neurosurgery surgeons
so a number of hours the average surgeon
Works per year is 50 weeks I gave him a
two-week vacation which might be
uh generous to a neurosurgeon but let's
remember many of those are in Europe and
they have a whole month for themselves
all right not all of them are in the US
which I guess those don't get a vacation
at least in their first 10 years of
their career I'm joking here I don't
know how it works but yeah so 50 weeks
per year times 60 hours per week is two
3 000 hours
okay per year and they spent 20 percent
of that time on surgery
so it's 600 hours
uh working on surgery per year per
neurosurgeon an average of about two
hours per day yeah which kind of makes
sense right uh then they spent on
average six hours per surgery
and uh 606 is 100
neurosurgeries that each neurosurgeon
participates in a year yeah that's super
weak maybe it's three
maybe it's four but I I'll go with two
and we can adjust later if needed okay
uh just to be a little conservative here
uh and then we need to divide that by
two neurosurgeons per surgery so we get
the average Neurosurgery
average number of surgeries per surgeon
is 50. so each surgeon does a hundred
but they do it in pairs all right so on
average 50 surgeries per surgeon and
then to find the number of neurosurgeons
all we need to do is to divide 2.2
million neurosurgery per year by 50
surgeries per single neurosurgeon on
average okay uh 2.2 million
uh
if we were to divide this by a hundred
instead of 50 it would be 20 220 K
uh or 22k so I divided by 10 and by 10
again yeah right so 22 K but but it's
divided by 50 so it should be twice this
number
should be 44
thousand neurosurgeons
in the world now I have no idea if this
number looks right or not so let me do
some
some Reality Checking here
one thing that we can do
is
so out of seven billion people how many
I'm trying to find like the percentage
like there's one neurosurgeon per
X thousand people okay to see if it
makes sense all right so 44 by seven let
me just work with easier numbers if it
were 35k just to find the order of
magnitude Yeah by 7 billion
that would be 35 by 7 million
which would be 35 by 7 is
5.
so 5
per million people that make sense
it's one for every 200k yeah I think
that's right let me see 35 divided by 7
we got five on top so it's five thousand
divided by 1 billion
so it's uh five divided by a million
yeah yeah so one neurosurgeon per 200
000 people
if you think with a developed roads
mines that seems like a small number uh
but if you think that like half of
people don't have access to it that
would imply a one neurosurgeon per 100
000 people
uh in a country where everyone has
access to it which kind of makes sense
most doctors are not neurosurgeons yeah
and I don't see small cities of 100 000
people with tons of neurosurgeons right
yeah I can even use the the example for
my city there's three neurosurgeons
there it's a 400 000 people City okay it
also grabs demand from nearby towns and
Villages
uh of course many people in that City go
to even larger cities to to do the
surgery but this sounds okay and another
way to look at this is you have 50
surgeries per year per surgeon but
actually they do a hundred right each
one of them yeah just to triangulate
this number here uh uh they do a hundred
if they were
I'd say in the U.S for example if they
were to earn 5K per surgery five
thousand dollars
uh then they'd earn
500k per year
which sounds okay sounds right sounds
right for a neurosurgeon I guess yeah I
guess for New York they'd earn much more
but they'd also charge much more than
exactly yeah yeah so so yeah 44 000
neurosurgeons is my answer
oh right
um I'm not gonna comment on your answer
right now but I am gonna tell you let's
say you were missing the mark by 5x so
let's say the right number is
like 9 000 neurosurgeons instead of 44.
okay where do you think your mistake
would be okay good good question do you
want me to just go in the lower number
of neurosurgeons direction or to only in
the lower number okay so if we were to
have less neurosurgeons
by 5X
it's not because of population because
even if it's 8 billion it would be more
neurosurgeons right yeah uh it might be
in the percentage of people who need
neurosurgery I can see this being one
percent okay in their lifetime uh it's
not the lifespan 70 years is close to
the answer
percentage who have access 50 I don't
see this dropping to ten percent
I could see this being 40 percent
30 percent probably is forcing too much
uh nah kind of okay uh the percentage
hopped in so eighty percent to reduce
this five-fold it would be about 15
percent
I don't see this being I think most
people who have a brain issue that
requires surgery will will do it yeah
number of surgeries per person who do a
surgery this can't be it because it has
to be at least one yeah
um for the number of Surgeons to be
way lower given way higher given the
same demands neurosurgeons would have to
work five times more which is impossible
yeah because they already work 60 hours
per week here yeah even if they were to
do 120 and not sleep at all it would be
just a two-fold increase so it might be
this
can be the number of weeks either uh
percentage of time spent on surgery
so
I put 20 percent here for me it's tops
40 percent
uh so maybe it's a 2X increase
maybe in the perfect world would be a 3X
increase so this could play a role
but I wouldn't explain everything right
yeah it doesn't sound like something
that can go much higher yeah average
average time per surgery for the number
of neurosurgeons to go down this would
have to go down as well assuming same
hours on surgery per week it would it
would have to be like one or two hours
per surgery
doesn't make sense to me yeah like it
takes half an hour to scrub when you're
doing brain surgery so it's not this one
and the average number of neurosurgeons
per surgery this would have to be like
half a surgeon so certainly not so I
think the main uh source of mistake
would be uh the number of people who
require surgery in their lifetime and I
said since the since the beginning that
this is the assumption that I'm kind of
not sure of so I bet on this one but it
could also be that they do way more
surgery uh than I thought with their
working hours yeah so maybe it's like
maybe it's one percent of people who
need surgery in their lifetime and that
would explain the whole effect maybe
it's 2.5 people who need surgery and
then surgeons do 40 of their working
week yeah surges that that would explain
as well okay I think that makes sense
okay all right Bruno this is it for this
case thank you so what did you think
anything you would have done differently
than Bruno or anything you didn't
understand leave your thoughts in the
comments and we can spark a debate I'll
be personally answering questions here
for a little bit so basically I chose
this video because there's a lot that
you can learn from it so I want to take
a minute right now and walk you through
the highlights of Bruno's performance so
that you can learn from them and from my
tricks as well the lessons are number
one the single most important thing to
do in Market sizes number two top down
structures number three the hardest
common type of estimation number four
how to deal with impossible assumptions
number five the Hidden Gem reality
checks and number six finally the
advanced technique that you need to
steal
the single most important thing that you
can do in your estimations and if you're
watching this video and you stop after
this lesson then I am happy with what
you've learned is to separate your
actions so you'll separate your
structure which is the mathematical path
that you use to get to the answer from
choosing the assumptions the numbers
that go within your structure and
separate that from calculating so from
actually multiplying and dividing and
adding and subtracting the numbers the
reason you want to do that is you want
to allow your interviewer or your client
or whoever's in front of you to disagree
with by any points of your answer so if
they disagree with something they don't
have to disagree with the entire
argument now let's see how Bruno does
this
check out how he's now building his
structure only he's not placing any
numbers within it now look how he's
choosing assumptions and leaving them
there so he'll discuss a specific point
and say okay this is five percent now he
moves on to the next one he doesn't do
the calculations with the numbers that
he's got before then the percentage will
opt-in for surgery I think most people
would yeah but I don't think it's the
vast majority because
yeah this brain uh issues that need
surgery or sometimes quite extreme maybe
yeah maybe your doctor says you have two
months to leave to live and then chances
of surgery saving you are
are
actually maybe our doctor says you know
maybe nothing is going to go wrong and
if you do the surgery your chance to
live is small and then you're like okay
I'm not gonna do that right yeah uh
you'd be surprised because brain surgery
can be risky not only in terms of death
but also in terms of
unexpected consequences right and
the outcome may not be so good if you
have a specific tumor it may not be
the best quality of life afterwards yeah
and sometimes there's alternative
treatments perhaps so chemotherapy I
don't know I'm not a neurosurgeon but
yeah let's call it 80 okay okay and now
he's calculating so he's gonna do all
the calculations at once and get to the
final answer number of people who need
neurosurgery in their lifetime it's 7
billion people times five percent yeah
if it were 10 it would be 700 million
people so that's 350 million it's half
of that yeah okay so this would allow me
to disagree with his percentage of
people who need neurosurgery for example
or I could disagree with the world
population because he used 7 billion and
it's generally 8 billion uh it's
actually 8 billion so this is what we
want to do now check out how normal
people how actually most candidates
would solve this case they would say
so I'll start with the world population
I'll take seven billion now I'll
multiply that by the percentage of
people that need neurosurgery so that's
350 million now I'm going to take that
and divide it by the lifespan of the of
a regular humans all divided by 70. now
I have 5 million and now I need to
multiply that by the
number of surgeries that a person who
has a neurosurgery will do so this will
bring me to 1.1 this is 5.5 million now
I want to multiply this by the
percentage of people that have access to
neurosurgery blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah this is tiring and it's
impossible to follow so you just get too
confused and you can't have an in-depth
discussion about a single tiny point in
there and this is what Consulting is all
about having all of these in-depth
discussions so that you can get to the
best answer ever same thing for finance
so you actually need to separate your
structures from your assumptions from
your calculations now this is something
that you can start doing today so in
your next case if you pause this video
right now and move on to your next case
you're already going to be several steps
ahead from all other candidates that are
doing estimations but don't pause the
video right now because I can't really
dissociate this from the second lesson
button which is also the second most
important lesson and that is top down
structures what this means is that when
you're building a structure instead of
building a linear mathematical operation
that we'll get from the beginning like
population until the final number you
build a mathematical tree that will
start from the final number and have
mathematical breakdowns each time until
you have a large tree that will get from
the final number to the assumptions now
watch Bruno do this I'm going to show
you of him doing two different
breakdowns to find the number of
neurosurgeries per year
I need to find how many people so number
of
people
who need who do
a neurosurgery per year and then
multiply that by the average
number of
surgeries
per person who needs neurosurgery it's
the number of hours worked
uh on surgery
on surgeries yeah
per year divided by the average
time
per surgery
now see how he's breaking it down
mathematically one step at a time
now what this allows you is two things
number one your interviewer is not going
to spend the whole interview anxious
wondering if you're gonna get to the
answer or not the interviewer will know
right away that you're gonna get to the
answer you might make one mistake or
another in the middle of the path and
they can talk to you about those
mistakes but they already know that
you're gonna get to the end whereas if
you're going linearly from the beginning
like population until the final answer
they're always on their toes wondering
if you're actually going to solve the
case or not and so they can't really
help you with tiny mistakes because they
don't know if they're going to be giving
you the answer or not because they're
confused as to where you are and where
you're going to get well this also
allows you is to have specific in-depth
discussions in each breakdown now you
saw in Bruno's interview that the number
of hours or number of surgeries that a
surgeon does is quite a complicated
matter now Bruno could discuss that with
me and he could have discussed even more
if he had more doubts on that specific
time and I wouldn't be wondering why
he's doing that because I already know
where he's going to get and so I can
help him a lot more and that's what you
get when you make top-down structures
now I can't take this video and show you
exactly how to do top down structures
teach you the whole thing right now
otherwise this would be a five hour
video and that's not good for YouTube at
all trust me uh so I'm gonna give you
the deal of your lifetime right now in
terms of estimations at least so Bruno
and I have a free course on estimations
and market sizings and that course
teaches you a step-by-step process
actually five-step process to solve any
Market sizing case and we teach you how
to do each one of those Steps step
number two is building top-down
structures and will teach you how to do
that in this course it will also give
you three practice examples so that you
can put it to practice and actually
learn how to make downtown structures
now you can find this course right now
at craftingcases.com free course you'll
see it saying case interview
fundamentals because Market sizing and
estimations are one of the fundamentals
of case interviews but it's a full
course on Market sizing that leads the
market signings module so get right to
it and now let's move on to lesson
number three the next lesson that I want
to teach you the hardest common type of
estimation is one that I'm like 90 sure
that's going to help you in at least one
of your interviews if you're like most
candidates and will interview in several
different firms now the reason that
period appears so much is it's a pattern
that's common it's simple but it's the
hardest of the simple ones so it's the
favorite for interviewers when they want
to make intermediate difficulty
estimations which is very common for
first rounds and even sometimes for Less
wraps now
this is a pattern that appears when you
have to estimate things like uh the
number of taxi drivers or right sharing
app drivers the number of hairdressers
in a specific City the number of gas
stations gas station pumps uh there's a
common one there is a famous one that's
the number of piano tuners in a specific
country or even neurosurgeons so watch
this pattern appearing in this very case
find the number of neurosurgeries per
year in the world so total demand yeah
and divide that by the surgeries per
surgeon on average okay now what exactly
is this pattern so basically we're
trying to estimate the number of
something existence in this case
neurosurgeons but something that
provides a service so a ride sharing app
driver provides rights as well as a taxi
driver a neurosurgeon is something that
provides surgery
a gas pump is something that provides
feelings you know filling the tank of
your car when we want to estimate the
number of those we find first the demand
for that service and we divide that by
the number of that service that one unit
can provide and so we get to the number
of years remember how Bruno said I'm
going to find the number of
neurosurgeries and I'm going to divide
it by the number of surgeries that one
surgery can do so surgery is divided by
surgeries per surgeon gives you surgeons
and then the average time spent on
surgery percentage of these 60 hours per
week that they spend on
surgery
I'd say most of the time they're not
doing surgery one because it's very
tiring yeah
and second because they have other
activities they have to do uh clinical
work right so uh
talk to their patients yeah they have
after before the surgery right they have
to strategize what they're going to do
in the surgery plan the surgery with
other doctors both other neurosurgeons
and also other doctors that may be
involved in the treatment yeah like a
cancer doctor for instance they also
need to do after surgery care yeah in
the hospital they have to do uh probably
a lot of uh paperwork yeah uh and for
insurance and stuff right and they have
to train new neurosurgeons many
neurosurgeons teach at universities uh
or they do uh training in hospitals and
stuff so let's say 20 percent
now here's the catch it's not that
simple this is not the only important
Insight that you're gonna have in this
case the second one is the occupancy
rate
think but think about something with me
ride-sharing drivers aren't always doing
rides for clients neurosurgeons are
aren't always doing neurosurgery gas
stations are aren't always filled to the
brim with cars and hairdressers always
have vacancies in their schedules
so the catch here is any unit that
supplies a service is not always
completely full with their schedule so
there's always an occupancy rate now
this is a little bit unintuitive most
people don't think about this so when
you do think about this you are going to
set yourself apart from other candidates
because this interviewer has done this
case with many many candidates and most
of them didn't realize that there was an
equippancy rate to be considered now
when you start doing that you're going
to realize that you need to come up with
a number for the occupancy rate now
sometimes you're gonna go for a
visual approach like you're going to
think about a gas station and think
um uh for X percentage of the time the
gas station is full for X percentage of
the time there's no one there so I'm
gonna use this occupancy rate that's
okay sometimes you're gonna have to come
up with uh Supply reasons for the
vacancy and demand reasons for the
vacancy so like hairdressers most people
don't want to cut their hairs at 4pm
because they've got to work so that's a
demand driven reason for vacancy and
there's also Supply Supply driven
reasons for vacancy like uh the
hairdresser has to go to the doctor
sometimes so they won't be working
anyway this uh these are drivers for the
occupancy rate or for the vacancy rate
but you can learn more about them and
you can actually get some practice in
these types of estimations in a free
course now I'm not going to bore you to
death by telling you again where to find
it we know what you you find our free
course on estimations and Market sizes
so let's move on to lesson number four
lesson number four is how to deal within
possible assumptions so the principle
that you need to understand with
choosing numbers for your assumptions is
that the interviewer wants to see if you
can put logic and numbers behind finding
your assumptions so you won't just guess
a random number and then the percentage
of people who need a surgery in their
lifetime that's quite a hard one yeah uh
because yeah most people I know haven't
had surgeries but I think it's more than
we expect because there's all sorts of
surgeries right it's not just brain
cancer yeah you have uh people who have
had trauma right and you have uh older
people with neurovascular issues uh and
there's also exploratory surgeries so I
don't know let's say you go blind or
something yeah and they suspect of a
neurological thing maybe you can do some
exams but maybe you need to
to to open your skull and and check it
so
I'd say
I'd say five percent so one in 20 people
now what you want to do most of the
times is
create a little model you know like a uh
in weight average or you're going to you
know model it somehow with kind of guest
numbers but model it somehow uh and get
you your number but sometimes the
assumption is just way too difficult to
get to and you can't model sometimes you
don't really understand how it works you
know what's affecting the number but you
don't understand how it works so what
you're going to do with those impossible
assumptions is you're going to show the
interviewer that you know what's
affecting that number and that you can
and want to put thought process behind
it but you're having trouble
specifically right now so
let's let's take an example let's say
you want to
use this impossible assumptions
technique with the percentage of people
in the world who have access to
neurosurgery you would say something
like
uh so I know that most people in the
many people in the world are way too
poor to be able to afford neurosurgery
even if they need it and also they don't
have a government behind them that will
provide it for them so I don't really
know how much how many people that is
but I would guess that people who are
too poor for to have access to
neurosurgery is 50 of the population is
that okay with you so you're showing the
interviewer that you can't put thought
behind an assumption but in this
specific and you you're showing them by
saying what factors are affecting that
number but you can't right now so you're
guessing a number now if you've broken
down your structure enough you've
probably gotten to a number that the
interviewer knows that if you need
you're gonna go and talk to a specialist
especially if you show that you know
what's affecting that number
so that's what you want to do now if
you're having trouble constantly uh with
choosing assumptions and modeling them
and using techniques and triangulations
I highly recommend you check out our
free course we have a lot of techniques
for choosing assumptions in there and we
also have a lot of examples so in those
three high quality practice examples
that we have in there you will find many
many assumptions where I'll use several
different techniques that you can steal
and start using in your own Market
science so go join the free course at
craftingcases.com free course and now
let's move on to lesson number five
lesson number five the Hidden Gem
reality checks reality checks are
basically checking your number against
some other number of reality to think if
it checks out if it makes sense now
watch Bruno do this once in this case
that he just did so when you're a
surgeon per 200 000 people
if you think with a developed Road uh
Minds that seems like a small number uh
but if you think that like half of
people don't have access to it that
would imply a one neurosurgeon per 100
000 people
uh in a country where everyone has
access to it which kind of makes sense
most doctors are not neurosurgeons yeah
and I don't see small cities of 100 000
people with tons of neurosurgeons right
yeah here are three key things that I
need you to know about reality check
number one
Consultants use them every single day
every day literally and so you need to
be able to do them number two you are
expected to do them in your your record
size interviews and number three
no one is talking about them you'll see
Market sizing example after market
sizing example and no one's even showing
reality checks much less teaching you
how to do them so basically you need to
do them Consultants need to do them but
no one is doing them so if you do a good
reality check in your interview you're
going to be setting yourself apart from
almost every single candidate out there
now why is this the case why do they
need you to do reality checks think
about it every time a consultant does an
analysis or estimates something they're
actually using a really complex Excel
model and this Excel model would be
almost as time consuming to audit as it
is to build so they can't afford to
audit every single model the solution
that the firm uses to make sure that
they're not making mistakes because they
also can't afford to make these mistakes
is everyone in the organization needs to
be able to run quick checks the
Consultants who are building the models
run quick checks on the model all the
time the managers who are looking at the
model also run their checks the partners
who are looking at the results also run
their checks and so everyone's running
checks and no mistakes happen but to do
that they need to test it in interviews
and that's why you're expected to do
them in your Market sizes now if you
want to learn more about the reality
checks how to do the techniques to
perform them and get some practice you
know where to find them our free course
crafting cases.com free course now let's
move on to last lesson number six lesson
number six is the advanced technique
that you need to steal so remember when
I first asked Bruno how many
neurosurgeons were there in the world he
actually gave me two different
approaches and told me which one he
thought was the best
watch him do it all right so number of
neurosurgeons in the world
okay I have a couple approaches here
find the number of neurosurgery per year
in the world so total demand yeah and
divide that by the surgeries per surgeon
on average okay
now my second approach would be to
estimate the number of doctors
so active medical doctors and multiply
that by the percentage of those who are
neurosurgeons
okay okay
um
yeah and between these two I think I'd
go with the first one because it
captures demand as well as their
productivity in a way now let me help
you read between the lines so you
understand what's really going on here
there's a hidden game going on in this
moment what's happening is I as an
interviewer want to see if Bruno can
solve any case in the world right that's
what Consultants need to be able to do
all the time
consulting firms do that by giving the
candidate four different cases sometimes
six in different interviews so if you're
lucky in one you won't be lucky in all
four
when Bruno showed me two different
approaches he showed me that it's very
much likely that he wasn't just lucky to
solve this one case because he could
solve it in two different ways so I
would expect that for other kids that he
would have at least one way to solve
that case so I'm a lot more certain that
Bruno is a good candidate right now
now
the second thing that Bruno is doing
when when giving me two different
approaches is allowing me to jump in and
help him so what happens in many Market
sizing cases is the interviewer has some
numbers with them you know if you've
done more interviews as the interviewer
you've probably seen you know give this
number is provided give this number is
provided if asked right provide this
number of asked and so when Bruno shows
me two different approaches he allows me
to once I know that he's a good
candidate that will solve the case he
allows me to jump in and say
take this route over here I might tell
him that I have some numbers there but I
might also not I might also just tell
him to go to that path and then I will
give him the data when he asked me to do
that but basically he's allowing me to
jump in because it's showing me that
he's already a good candidate and he's
asking me which path is the best and I
know which path is the best because I
have some numbers for that path right so
I can't help him so when you're doing
your cases if you can come up with more
than one approach to solving Market
sizing then definitely do and tell your
interviewer which one you think is the
best but also ask them which one do they
think is the best so that you can show
them that you're not being Lucky by
solving that case they can throw
anything at you and you'll solve it in
two different ways if need be anyway
those are the six lessons that I wanted
you to learn from this case I hope you
enjoyed it as much as I enjoyed
recording this and interviewing Bruno
and challenging him if you need to learn
more about Market science you know where
to find me just go to craftingcases.com
free course and join our free course on
Market sizes estimations and all other
case interview fundamentals I hope to
see you inside
[Music]
thank you